README.md, before:

# Google-Trends-Visualizer-Map

This is an ongoing passion project that I am building with an intention to submit in the Google Maps Platform Awards - the deadline of which is August 1, 2025. 

# What the project does

The project combines the power of `Google Trends` and `Google Maps`, by scraping real-time data from `Google Trends` to create an interactive visualization of these words in different locations using `Google Maps`.

# Motivation behind this project

As an amateur photographer and a linguistics minor, my faith in the storytelling abilities of visuals is just as strong as my love for word patterns. If `Google Trends` is combined with `Google Maps`, we can perform interesting comparative analysis by observing words trending in different regions, be in the same country or in different continents. This is not only helpful for the sheer entertainment found in visualizing how much trends differ based on geolocation even in today's global village, or how fast they can shift from 'rizz' to 'dubai chocolate', but can also be used for journalistic purposes during important global events to display which countries experiences effects of these incidents and which do not. 


## Skills to be acquired by this project 

As a young backend developer, I plan to use this project to build stronger backend and data processing skills upon my previous experiences (building a search engine and a dartmouth course planning chatbot, see links below), and also frontend skills from scratch. Examples would be:

1. adding API handling and Pytrends to my previous web-scraping skills 
2. strengthening my pandas/numpy skills to better parse and engineer huge amounts of data
3. working n basic Javascript to build an interactive map
4. improving my UX skills by following user-centric approaches
5. deploying for user testing in future

Commit message:

Added links to README.md

README.md, after:

# Google-Trends-Visualizer-Map

This is an ongoing passion project that I am building with an intention to submit in the Google Maps Platform Awards - the deadline of which is August 1, 2025. 

### What the project does

The project combines the power of `Google Trends` and `Google Maps`, by scraping real-time data from `Google Trends` to create an interactive visualization of trending words in different countries of the world using `Google Maps`.

### Motivation behind this project

As an amateur photographer and a linguistics minor, my faith in the storytelling abilities of visuals is just as strong as my love for word patterns. If `Google Trends` is combined with `Google Maps`, we can perform interesting comparative analysis by observing words trending in different regions, be in the same country or in different continents. This is not only helpful because of the sheer entertainment found in visualizing trend differences based on geolocation even in today's global village, or the swift shift from 'rizz' to 'dubai chocolate', but can also be used for journalistic purposes during important global events to display which countries experiences are affected and which are not. 


### Skills to be acquired by this project 

As a young backend developer, I plan to use this project to build stronger backend and data processing skills upon my previous experiences (building a search engine and a dartmouth course planning chatbot, see links below), and also frontend skills from scratch. Examples would be:

1. adding API handling and Pytrends to my previous web-scraping skills 
2. strengthening my pandas/numpy skills to better parse and engineer huge amounts of data
3. working in basic Javascript to build an interactive map
4. improving my UX skills by following user-centric approaches
5. deploying for user testing in future


### Related links:

1. Find my Dartmouth Course Planning Chatbot here: [https://github.com/adwiteeya-r-paul/Dartmouth-Course-Planning-Chatbot]
2. Find my Search Engine here: [https://github.com/adwiteeya-r-paul/C-Search-Engine]
3. Learn more about Google Maps Platform Awards [https://googlemapsplatformawards.devpost.com/?ref_feature=challenge&ref_medium=discover]
